---
title: "Yak Shaving"
date: "2021-04-15"
author: "Odee"
---

Yak Shaving.

I do this a lot. I mean, it is necessary, but, I could, atleast I think, could
`shave` a little off.

The last topic I posted was about Text Editing, and yes, it is not a
coincidence that I am posting about Yak Shaving. You see, I need to update my
workflow, to reduce and avoid 'Yak Shave'-ing better. Atleast, if not lessen,
be a little more efficient.

So how? Workspaces? 

IIRC, I started using workspaces as part of my 'workflow' several years back
with windows + something Desktop Cube it's called, to using spaces on Mac, to
i3/xmonad/dwm/insert other window manager here. But these, managing these
windows are a little too high in the stack of my thought-abstractions, they're
mostly facades, used to control what to be focused on the screen. I'd like to
have it a little bit lower, close to the bottom. Say, buffer level, in the text
editor.

On my day to day, I heavily use tmux-sessions + vim buffers. Tmuxinator to spawn
sessions, and Teamocil to spawn layouts. Recently though, im no longer using 
tmux panes, I have started using :terminal instead, vim splits and tabs 
> MassiveTip: please stop using `c-w + o`, use `:tab split` instead ;)

Hmm, i think we have to pause, idk where this is going now, now that I am
spending precious braincells on the topic, i feel i just need a Teamocil
equivalent for vim splits. hmmm. A way to manage split layouts, a
split-layout-manager. Let me google that... "vim split layout manager", hmm,
yeah, knew it. People are recommending vim sessions. Maybe this is the time.
Time to try sessions out.

Going back `P^^`, I use emacs too, mostly for note taking and calendar-ing. I
have heard of perspective-el. But im deferring the use of that. I'll try
tab-bar-mode, tab-line-mode, winner-mode, and desktop.el first. With those +
the help of the all powerful projectile, I feel i'll be able to get to a
workflow i will be satisfied with.

End. ÎÅù!

Ref. http://www.mit.edu/~xela/yakshaving.html

PS: start blogging in org-mode please.
